---
layout: page
title: Meeting Minutes
excerpt: ""
modified:
image:
  feature: feature/wide_ensemble.png
  credit:
  creditlink:
---

# Minutes of the SGB

## Meeting Notes

## 2019/10/21 (regular online meeting)

**Board Members**

* Present (5): Jonah Gabry, Sean Talts, Lizzie Wolkovich, Michael Betancourt, Julie Bertrand.

* Absent (2): Daniel Lee, Andrew Gelman.

* Quorum present? Yes.

* Others present: None.

**Proceedings**

Meeting called to order at 3 PM by Michael Betancourt.

1. Meeting minutes from 10/21/2019 not discussed.

2. Voting procedures and responsibilities.

    - SGB members welcome to post on discourse nomination thread about their experience
    - SGB members to think about people to encourage for nomination
    - SGB members to think about what to do if not enough nominations
    - Jonah Gabry and Community Manager to monitor the “tone” of the discourse thread on nomination
    - Community Manager to remove not nomination related posts and Jonah Gabry to check the log and help out when needed
    - Michael Betancourt to set-up the vote when time comes

3. Information to handoff to the next SGB

    - Michael Betancourt to create a google document with a list of required items
    - SGB members to review the list for missing items before next week
    - List to be sent to Breck Baldwin

 
4. TWG

    - Bob Carpenter is drafting a new TWG
    - Discussion on how the new SGB should not necessarily be the entity to validate the new TWG structure (also valid for Stan CoC) but possibly vote by electorate or a structured Stan community.


Meeting adjourned at 3:45 PM.
 
Minutes submitted by Julie Bertrand.


## 2019/10/14 (regular online meeting)


**Board Members**

* Present (8): Andrew Gelman, Breck Baldwin, Jonah Gabry, Sean Talts,
  Daniel Lee, Lizzie Wolkovich, Michael Betancourt, Julie Bertrand.

* Absent (0).

* Quorum present? Yes.

* Others present: None.


**Proceedings**

Meeting called to order at 3 PM by Presiding Officer, Breck Baldwin.

1. Minutes from 2019/10/07 approved.

2. Discussion about SGB Election.

    - Discussed Breck's proposal.

    - We came to a consensus on:

        * We need to have a vote.

        * Electorate for the vote will stay the same (developers only). We discussed expanding it, but at this moment, we are keeping the existing electorate.

        * Anyone is eligible to run for the SGB, even if they are not part of the electorate.

        * We will have an election for 5 board seats.

        * We will use approval voting. As a condition for NumFOCUS, the board cannot have the majority be from one organization.

        * Nominations will be self-nominating and done on Discourse.

        * Election days:

            * Nominations: Oct 21-Nov 4

            * Elections: Nov 4-Nov 11.


Meeting adjourned at 4 PM.

Minutes submitted by Secretary, Daniel Lee.



## 2019/10/07 (regular online meeting)


**Board Members**

* Present (8): Andrew Gelman, Breck Baldwin, Jonah Gabry, Sean Talts,
  Daniel Lee, Lizzie Wolkovich, Michael Betancourt, Julie Bertrand.

* Absent (0).

* Quorum present? Yes.

* Others present: None.


**Proceedings**

Meeting called to order at 3 PM by Presiding Officer, Breck Baldwin.

1. Meeting minutes from 09/26/2019 approved.

2. StanCon 2019 report by Breck Baldwin.

	- Will have a full financial report later. Was net positive.

	- No code of conduct violations.

	- About 240 attendees.

	- Overall, a positive conference.

3. Financial status reported by Breck Baldwin.

	- SGB needs a treasurer.

4. StanCon 2020 status by Daniel Lee.

	- Ask: please send dates to avoid in August 2020.

	- NumFOCUS can provide a lot of logistical support.

	- The local organizers at OSU have been very responsive, draft
      budget already prepared and available.

5. Discussion of SGB Governance.

    - Current SGB has a deadline of 10/23/2019.

	- Recapped proposal from Michael Betancourt.

	- Recapped proposal from Breck Baldwin.

	- Discussed the pros and cons of each.

	- Will try to separate the proposal to settle on electorate this
      week.

Meeting adjourned at 4 PM.

Minutes submitted by Secretary, Daniel Lee.



## 2019/09/26 (regular online meeting)

**Board Members**

* Present (6): Andrew Gelman, Breck Baldwin, Jonah Gabry, Sean Talts,
  Daniel Lee, Lizzie Wolkovich.

* Absent (2): Michael Betancourt, Julie Bertrand.

* Quorum present? Yes.

* Others present: None.


**Proceedings**

Meeting called to order at 12:30 PM by Presiding Officer, Breck Baldwin.

1. Meetings: our last meeting was Oct, 2018. We agreed to have more
   regular, shorter meetings.

2. SGB voting procedures. We recognized that there is a problem with
   our current online voting procedure. We will take it offline to try
   to fix it.

3. Stan Conference 2020.

	There are two potential hosts (that are still offering):

	1. Oregon State. Led by Yi Zhang and Debashis Mondal. Breck had a
       phone call with them.

	2. Utrecht. Led by Duco Veen and Matthijs Vákár. Breck has been in
       contact with them. They need an answer immediately on hosting
       StanCon 2020.

	We discussed the importance of StanCon to the community and it was
    clear that we feel that it is important that the SGB is
    responsible for having a good event each year. We should organize
    StanCon centrally with local organizers providing logistical
    support. Daniel Lee will take over communication from Breck
    Baldwin on StanCon and we will go forward with Oregon State for
    StanCon 2020.


4. Job descriptions. Andrew would like to involve Lauren Kennedy and
   Dan Simpson, members of the community that would help draft
   more-inclusive job descriptions for positions we are spending money
   for. The information procedure Andrew will follow is to draft job
   descriptions via email, then submit drafts to SGB.

5. TWG creation. We have not succeeded in creating a TWG yet. We
   identified that in our previous drafts we did not have enough focus
   on community leadership and focused instead on technical leadership
   and this needs to change. Breck's ask: look at the discourse
   thread. https://discourse.mc-stan.org/t/twg-definition-roles-call-for-feedback-ideas-refinement/11094

6. Electorate discussion. We are trying to expand an electorate. Breck
   will email the SGB with the latest draft of proposed.


Meeting adjourned at 1:30.

Minutes submitted by Secretary, Daniel Lee.



## 2018/10/03 (regular online meeting)

**Board Members**

* Present (4): Breck Baldwin, Andrew Gelman, Lizzie Wolkovich, Daniel Simpson.

* Absent (5): Daniel Lee, Jonah Sol Gabry, Julie Bertrand, Michael Betancourt,
  Sean Talts.

* Quorum present? No.

* Others present: None

**Proceedings:**

All,

No quorum so I'll report it as informational which will be more
detailed than typical minutes.

1. There were some technical difficulties, so the meeting started a
little late.

2. TWG. We spoke about reaching out to the TWG for how to spend money and
some further direction on how to spend the funds that we have.

3. Discussion about the value of individual memberships. The feeling
was that the costs for whatever benefits we provided for membership
would not be cost effective as well. If people want to support Stan as
individuals they can buy a t-shirt.

4. Discussion about corporate memberships. Corporate memberships
perhaps make more sense. But again, what are the benefits? For $1k a
corp/university gets a few hours consulting, which in turn brings up
who has to support this. Maybe more like $10k for some quality time? A
dedicated email list for support. We discussed briefly adding tags to
Discourse discussions from "corp members" that gives them some
priority. Lots of issues around this. $20k gets you a 2-day course on
site?

5. I promised to get pricing on what a seat of SAS, SPSS, Strata
costs. We can mirror that pricing for a license for Stan for those who
desire to pay for Stan. Also the Gates foundation buys software for
their use.

6. We spoke of how to find successful OSS (Open Source Software) orgs
that made the transition we are trying to make. Julia and RStudio came
up. We spoke of how to address this information gathering goal.

Submitted by Breck Baldwin.

---

## 2018/09/26 (regular online meeting)

**Board Members**

* Present (7): Andrew Gelman, Dan Simpson, Breck Baldwin, Julie Bertrand, Daniel Lee, Sean Talts, Lizzie Wolkovich.

* Absent (2): Jonah Sol Gabry, Michael Betancourt.

* Quorum present? Yes.

* Others present: None


**Proceedings:**

* Meeting called to order at 12:05 PM by Presiding Officer, Breck Baldwin.

* Accepted minutes from 09/18/2018 meeting.

* Minutes will be publicly posted on mc-stan.org.

* **Motion (Vote #9)**. Motion to turn down proposal for funding external Stan development. Seconded and passed 7-0-2.

* Report from Breck on asking Richard McElreath to join the
  board. Richard said no for the time being; we can revisit again with
  him later.

* Discussion on how to start the Technical Working Group (TWG). Tabled
  until Bob Carpenter is back in NYC. At a minimum, TWG needs to
  determine what budget it needs.

* Discussion on mission statement. There’s a tension between the two
  broad things we want to do:

    * Stan fits the hardest Bayesian models.
    * Stan is the programming language of Bayesian inference.

    We want to be accessible to bleeding edge computation and applied research. We want to support Stan’s technical development and wise use of Stan.

* Breck’s Executive Director report

    * Financials / NumFOCUS. Breck briefly discussed the NumFOCUS
      Summit that happened in NYC over the weekend. He’s been told
      that we will be able to directly invoice vendors, which should
      make working with NumFOCUS better.

    * Role. Discussion on role of the Executive Director. Two broad
      tasks Breck will do as the Executive Director: operating officer
      and building relationships.

* Meeting adjourned at 12:55 PM.

* Minutes submitted by Secretary, Daniel Lee.


**Online Activity:**

* 2018/09/21. **Vote #7.** Reject proposal for funding external Stan
  development. Vote withdrawn.

* 2018/09/24. **Vote #8.** The SGB approves torsten-white_Stan.png use
  of the Stan logo. Passed 6-1-2. This vote approves the logo artwork
  indefinitely (the exact image), even if it does not meet our policy
  in the future. There was a secondary motion presented asking for the
  logo to be approved for now, but ask for adjustment if it was in
  violation of our policy. This secondary motion was withdrawn.

* 2018/09/24. Motion to create a Stan Logo policy. This is currently
  in discussion.


---

## 2018/09/18 (regular online meeting)

**Board Members**

* Present (5): Daniel Lee, Breck Baldwin, Julie Bertrand, Sean Talts, Dan Simpson.

* Absent (4): Andrew Gelman, Jonah Sol Gabry, Michael Betancourt,
  Lizzie Wolkovich.

* Quorum present? Yes.

* Others present: None


**Proceedings:**

* Meeting called to order at 12:05 PM Eastern by Acting Presiding
  Officer, Breck Baldwin.

* Noted that votes will only pass when it’s a simple majority of the
  full board (not a simple majority of those present).

* Breck reported on interactions with NumFOCUS. Currently, we are
unable to be issued a credit card. There are other options for
umbrella organizations and we may want to reconsider if NumFOCUS is
not able to handle finances for us in a satisfactory manner.

* **Motion (Vote #3):** Breck Baldwin nominated as presiding
    officer. Seconded and passed 5-0-4 (for, against, abstain
    (including absentees)).

* **Motion (Vote #4):** Move to set up 3 specific email accounts with
the “@mc-stan.org” domain: breck@mc-stan.org for Breck Baldwin to use
for Stan-related communication as executive director,
board@mc-stan.org for an external-facing inbound email address,
treasurer@mc-stan.org to go to the active treasurer (when we have
one). Brief discussion about which email addresses and whether Breck’s
email should be the role or the individual. Seconded and passed 5-0-4.
Todo: Daniel and Breck will set up the email addresses.

* Breck will send reports of his meetings with the different
  consultants. He will start prefacing reports with “Report” in the
  title.

* Breck will post a message to discourse announcing the Stan Governing
  Body to general. (It has been posted:
  https://discourse.mc-stan.org/t/your-new-governing-body/5693)

* Everyone on the board should have write permissions to the
  website. Todo: Daniel will give write permissions to everyone on the
  board.

* **Motion (Vote #5):** Move to reject the request from Metrum
Research Group (Shona Kidd) to embed the Stan logo with a Torsten
logo. Discussion took place around whether it’s appropriate for any
project can embed the logo, the separation between official Stan
projects and unofficial ones, and that we would be ok with “powered by
Stan” as long as it doesn’t imply endorsement. The motion was seconded
and passed 5-0-4.  Todo: Breck will respond back to Shona Kidd stating
that we disapprove the use of the Stan logo as presented, but are ok
with a “powered by Stan” type of wording.

* Discussion on policy on inbound email. After board@mc-stan.org is
  set up, we will try to respond to each inbound email within 24
  hours, typically with template email. Anyone on the board is allowed
  to subscribe and share the responsibilities, but is not
  necessary. Initial volunteers: Breck, Daniel Lee, Daniel Simpson.

* Short discussion on funding. We discussed a number of things,
including paid licenses, focusing on recurring funding, and whether
this should be a committee. We decided this was important to the whole
board, so will have the email discussion with the whole board.  Todo:
Breck will send a summary message on what he’s thought about for
funding. We will continue the discussion with the whole board via
email.

* **Motion (Vote #6).** Motion to engage the two consultants we had as
    the committee: James Vasille (non-profit, board organization) and
    Kim Crayon (diversity). Seconded and failed 4-1-4. Quick
    discussion afterwards about describing the expected benefits from
    engaging with the consultants.

* Meeting adjourned at 12:55 PM Eastern.

* Minutes submitted by Board Member, Daniel Lee.


**Online Activity:**

* 2018/09/03. **Vote #1.** The SGB will extend an invitation to
  Richard McElreath to join the SGB as full voting member. Passed
  6-0-4.

* 2018/09/05. Tamara Broderick has stepped down from the Stan
  Governing Body. We thank Tamara for her service on SGB and on the
  Stan NumFOCUS Board.

* 2018/09/18. **Vote #2.** Daniel Lee will be secretary of the SGB for
  the provisional year of this SGB as per Robert's Rules of Order 11th
  ed. Passed 6-0-3.
